Hi, I'm Cat, and I'm gonna
show you some soothing touch
exercises you can use to
calm your nervous system.
The first is to simply put your hand
over your heart.
You can experiment with how much
pressure feels good here.
Some people like firm pressure or
even a fist with the other hand over
the top.
Other people like me, like a gentler
touch and even some soft,
soothing motion.
Next, you can try putting your hand
over your stomach, or two
hands on your stomach, or one
on your chest and one on your
stomach.
Play around with these to see which
feels best for you.
The next is a self hug.
Where you simply wrap your arms
around yourself and give yourself
a big squeeze, as if you
would a friend who is having a tough
day.
Lots of people find this really
comforting and containing.
And it can be quite discreet if you
want to try it out in a meeting.
The last one, which is my favourite,
is to gently caress your skin.
I like to run my fingertips really
lightly across the skin on my face
or down the back of my neck,
and even through my hair.
Your skin's full of nerve endings
that you can use to send a signal to
your brain that you're safe
and you can relax, and
all those stress hormones can melt
away.
So there you have it.
Those are some exercises that use
the power of the body to calm the
brain.